ticdc: add data integration docs (#9692)
pingcap/docs: migrate-from-tidb-to-mysql.md

---
title: Migrate Dta from TiDB to MySQL-compatible Databases
summary: Learn how to migrate data from TiDB to MySQL-compatible databases.
---

# Migrate Dta from TiDB to MySQL-compatible Databases

This document describes how to migrate data from TiDB clusters to MySQL-compatible databases, such as Aurora, MySQL, and MariaDB. The whole process contains four steps:

1. Set up the environment.
2. Migrate full data.
3. Migrate incremental data.
4. Switch services to the new TiDB cluster.

> ## Step 1. Set up the environment

Author: 下面 Line 19 提供了参考链接，不知道是否足够用户参考，咱们有比较特殊的资源环境要求吗？ @leoppro

> ## Step 1. Set up the environment

Author: 之前记得是在做数据迁移文档的时候，约定了步骤的写法，中文加冒号 “步骤 1 ：”，英文加句点 “Step 1.”

> ## Step 1. Set up the environment

Reviewer: 如果用户已经有上下游集群了，这一步应该是可以跳过的，不用重复部署。 对没错，但这不是我们省略部署步骤的理由。

但用户是否需要注意自己的集群应该满足哪些条件？有什么检查项？对软硬件资源有什么要求？在 L19 有标准的生产集群部署步骤和限制。

> ## Step 1. Set up the environment

Reviewer 2: > 如果用户已经有上下游集群了，这一步应该是可以跳过的，不用重复部署。 对没错，但这不是我们省略部署步骤的理由。

可以在这一步里标注是 optional 的。“如果你已经xxx，可以跳过部署。”

> 但用户是否需要注意自己的集群应该满足哪些条件？有什么检查项？对软硬件资源有什么要求？在 L19 有标准的生产集群部署步骤和限制。

意思是指，如果用户已经有集群了，根据 L19 里的内容可以检查自己的集群是否符合要求？如果符合要求，即可进行后续步骤。是这样吗？

    ```shell
    tiup bench tpcc -H 127.0.0.1 -P 4000 -D tpcc --warehouses 4 prepare
    tiup bench tpcc -H 127.0.0.1 -P 4000 -D tpcc --warehouses 4 run --time 300s
    ```

    For more details about `go-tpc`, refer to [How to Run TPC-C Test on TiDB](/benchmark/benchmark-tidb-using-tpcc.md).

## Step 2. Migrate full data

After setting up the environment, you can use [Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md) to export the full data from the upstream TiDB cluster.

1. Disable Garbage Collection (GC).

    To ensure that newly written data is not deleted during incremental migration, you should disable GC for the upstream cluster before exporting full data. In this way, history data is not deleted.

    ```sql
    MySQL [test]> SET GLOBAL tidb_gc_enable=FALSE;
    Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.01 sec)
    MySQL [test]> SELECT @@global.tidb_gc_enable;
    +-------------------------+：
    | @@global.tidb_gc_enable |
    +-------------------------+
    |                       0 |
    +-------------------------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > In production clusters, exporting data with GC disabled might affect cluster performance. It is recommended that you export data in off-peak hours.

Author: I think it's OK to put this note here. Because:
1. The operation related to this note is to disable GC. If we separate the note and the context, it may look weird.
2. This note recommends exporting data during off-peak hours and the next step is exporting data. Users can be well notified.

>     > In production clusters, exporting data with GC disabled might affect cluster performance. It is recommended that you export data in off-peak hours.

Reviewer: > If this task affects online application, suggest putting it at the beginning of the doc.

请问这样做的理由是什么

>     > In production clusters, exporting data with GC disabled might affect cluster performance. It is recommended that you export data in off-peak hours.

Reviewer 2: 如果这个任务会影响到线上业务，这类 note 应该放在靠前的位置，让用户在开始前就注意到。避免用户操作到一半，才发现可能当前时间点不适合进行迁移。

>     > In production clusters, exporting data with GC disabled might affect cluster performance. It is recommended that you export data in off-peak hours.

Reviewer: 不建议调整这个note的位置，可以在文章开头新增一个 note

2. Back up data.

    1. Export data in SQL format using Dumpling:

        ```shell
        tiup dumpling -u root -P 4000 -h 127.0.0.1 --filetype sql -t 8 -o ./dumpling_output -r 200000 -F256MiB
        ```

    2. After finishing exporting data，run the following command to check the metadata. `Pos` in the metadata is the TSO of the export snapshot and can be recorded as the BackupTS.

        ```shell

>         [root@test ~]# cat dumpling_output/metadata

Author: @leoppro

>         [root@test ~]# cat dumpling_output/metadata

Reviewer: 【please separate command from output】 具体指怎么操作？》

>         [root@test ~]# cat dumpling_output/metadata

Reviewer 2: Use two separate code blocks. e.g.:

```shell
cat dumpling_output/metadata
```
Expected output:
```log
Started dump at: 2022-06-28 17:49:54
SHOW MASTER STATUS:
        Log: tidb-binlog
        Pos: 434217889191428107
        GTID:
Finished dump at: 2022-06-28 17:49:57
```

>         [root@test ~]# cat dumpling_output/metadata

Author: Like this? Separate them with a blank line?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/89768198/185307003-5bb8dc1a-7de0-422b-ac4b-bd70b41de67f.png)

>         [root@test ~]# cat dumpling_output/metadata

Reviewer 2: 是的，用户复制命令的时候不会把输出也复制了，还要手动删掉。一个小小的可用性提升~

        ```shell
        docker run --name some-mysql -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=my-secret-pw -p 3306:3306 -d mysql
        ```

    - In a production environment, you can deploy a MySQL instance by following instructions in [Installing MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/installing.html).

3. Simulate service workload.

    In the lab environment, you can use `go-tpc` to write data to the TiDB cluster upstream. This is to generate event changes in the TiDB cluster. Run the following command to create a database named `tpcc` in the TiDB cluster, and then use TiUP bench to write data to this database.

    ```shell
    tiup bench tpcc -H 127.0.0.1 -P 4000 -D tpcc --warehouses 4 prepare
    tiup bench tpcc -H 127.0.0.1 -P 4000 -D tpcc --warehouses 4 run --time 300s
    ```

    For more details about `go-tpc`, refer to [How to Run TPC-C Test on TiDB](/benchmark/benchmark-tidb-using-tpcc.md).

## Step 2. Migrate full data

After setting up the environment, you can use [Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md) to export the full data from the upstream TiDB cluster.

> **Note:**
>

> > In production clusters, performing a backup with GC disabled might affect cluster performance. It is recommended that you complete this step in off-peak hours.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> In production clusters, performing a data export with GC disabled might affect cluster performance. It is recommended that you complete this step in off-peak hours.
```

Author: 不过这里导出数据也是为了备份，只是通过 dumpling 完成，下面 line 76 标题就是 back up data.

3. Enable GC.

    In incremental migration using TiCDC, GC only removes history data that is replicated. Therefore, after creating a changefeed, you need to run the following command to enable GC. For details, see [What is the complete behavior of TiCDC garbage collection (GC) safepoint](/ticdc/ticdc-faq.md#what-is-the-complete-behavior-of-ticdc-garbage-collection-gc-safepoint).

    ```sql
    MySQL [test]> SET GLOBAL tidb_gc_enable=TRUE;
    Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.01 sec)

>     MySQL [test]> SELECT @@global.tidb_gc_enable;

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
    To enable GC, run the following command:
    
    ```sql
    SET GLOBAL tidb_gc_enable=TRUE;
    ```

    ```
    Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.01 sec)
    ```

    To verify that the change takes effect, query the value of `tidb_gc_enable`:

    ```sql
    SELECT @@global.tidb_gc_enable;
````

Author: fixed in 5c8c22c
